#Design for a hillpeople world understanding authoring system

= Introduction =

   Cogbot is a server written for .NET that connects several avatars
   acting as "bots" to OpenSim or Second Life. The system is intended
   to provide basic features programmers need to populate a prebuilt
   virtual environments with non player characters doing "interesting"
   things. 

Interesting, in human terms, means that the actions have meaning and make sense.  This requires some 'intelligence' tools.

As of this writing we've taken the Hill People example as far as we can without a more powerful tool. AngloBot will be that tool.

= Name =
 
Anglobot is a working title.

= Manifesto =

Overarching design principles:
  * Development is a total activity. We want a system that supports running test runs, updating, and debugging as an integrated, humane activity.
  * Better tools are needed to build a palace than a garden shed.
  * Formal power and semantics are interesting, but so is ease of use.
  * We appreciate the design decisions that lead to Inform 7, but recognize that their design solutions are for their domain, not ours.
  * Our users come first
  * Including technical details and requirements, making the learning curve more formidable, affects not only non/less technical users, but busy technical users as well. Complexity has a cost.
  * To understand is to relate actions to utility. This is the Papertian view and Gibson's ecological view.
  * PDDL is our machine code.
  * Our interpreter is opinionated. It understands some fundamental things that are awkward to encode in the user's language, e.g. that carrying a thing means it moves with the carrier.

= What we tell the system =

  * Snippets - sections of a plan that a planner can combine to create plans by HTN.
  * Ontology - facts about the nature of the world, in a form that can be converted to snippets.
  * Utility - facts about the value of doing things.

== Snippets ==


== Ontology ==


== Utility ==


== IDE ==

Skein - like Inform 7  (how do we 'reset')?

GUI tool to observe sysvars, botvars





== the convo on skype ==

{{{
ok, confusion solved on voice.
[11:46:23 PM] Anne Ogborn: we;'ve been speaking of Inform 7 as a model for how to make Anglobot
[11:46:42 PM | Edited 11:46:54 PM] Douglas R. Miles: recap: when i said world rezzing . i was referning to the size of the DSL arround world state vs DSL size arround defining bot actions
[11:46:49 PM] Anne Ogborn: By that, I've been meaning more the development cycle and tools
[11:47:12 PM] Anne Ogborn: Inform 7 has two primary functions - define initial world state and define mutators
[11:47:21 PM] Anne Ogborn: that's not useful for us
[11:47:41 PM] Anne Ogborn: it's defined by the OAR and LSL files, not by anglobot
[11:48:03 PM] Anne Ogborn: instead, we need a system that can define utility
[11:48:16 PM] Anne Ogborn: and PDDL like snippets
[11:48:38 PM] Anne Ogborn: the interpreter than makes a plan that maximizes utility using the snippets
[11:49:11 PM] Anne Ogborn: because PDDL can be awkward, we give help by defining ontological relationships, like 'the hoe is carryable'
[11:50:15 PM] Anne Ogborn: and then the compiler knows what PDDL snippets about the hoe to generate (at least notionally, I assume we do some more efficient implementation)
[11:50:24 PM] Anne Ogborn: SWo, how are we like Inform 7?
[11:50:53 PM] Anne Ogborn: We have a 'wide' problem - a problem of generating much code that isn't very clever, just blorted out.
[11:51:23 PM] Anne Ogborn: that means having  a syntax that supports lots of not clever code.
[11:51:42 PM] Anne Ogborn: the pseudo english of Inform 7 demonstrably does that in it's domain
[11:52:17 PM] Anne Ogborn: also, the IDE for Inform 7 focuses on the RUN part of the debug-run-compile cycle.
[11:53:00 PM] Anne Ogborn: we need to do the same - have really great tools for setting the bots back where they were, and for changing a rule on the fly without restarting the world.
[11:53:21 PM] Anne Ogborn: (I think of games, which include script engines for the same reason)
[11:54:21 PM] Anne Ogborn: finally, if we're spendinb a lot of time writing this 'informish' language, we should have a good environment in which to do it, so the beauty and elegance of the inform 7 environment add real productiveity value
[11:55:03 PM] Anne Ogborn: Not to mention, if I'm gonna spend a year of my life making this thing I'll spend a lot of time staring into it, and I don't want it to look ugly or work awkwardly  8cD

}}}



== convo from skype, 7/10/2012 ==

{{{

[7/9/2012 11:59:30 PM | Edited 11:59:42 PM] Douglas R. Miles: 1) getting from SL initial state aligned to what the planner can inerpret
[12:00:52 AM] Douglas R. Miles: 2) perhaps mapping what differnt objects are that arent always already in the world
[12:01:10 AM | Edited 12:01:32 AM] Douglas R. Miles: such as "live fish" -> "raw fish"->"cooked fish"->"fish bones"
[12:02:09 AM | Edited 12:02:17 AM] Douglas R. Miles: obviously it only has to be as elablerate as to provide support for "what the bot can do"
[12:02:35 AM] Douglas R. Miles: right now to me it is unknown to how elaborate it might have to become
[12:02:53 AM | Edited 12:03:08 AM] Douglas R. Miles: to support descriptions of states as used by a plan definitopn
[12:03:49 AM | Edited 12:04:07 AM] Douglas R. Miles: for example "happy-well-fed-robot" might be something that makes sense as a affecct blessed onto a robot
[12:04:37 AM] Douglas R. Miles: in order to explain the result state that a plan will create
[12:05:40 AM] Douglas R. Miles: so i supposed a description of that "world rez" DSL is to be capable of at least describing state when there is no description of action yet
[12:06:29 AM] Douglas R. Miles: but i am hopefull that "description of action" will tell us the min/max scope of the world state language
[12:07:10 AM] Douglas R. Miles: i just know that those two context taken individually can be just as insteasting to design a UI/Language arround
[12:07:23 AM] Douglas R. Miles: sometimes it is easier to design arround world state descriptiuon
[12:07:33 AM] Douglas R. Miles: that has been where the most research has been done
[12:08:26 AM] Douglas R. Miles: KNext is an example of "Knowledge Representation" that is far richer than the world of action
[12:09:24 AM | Edited 12:09:28 AM] Douglas R. Miles: still tremendous overlap to the world of action
[12:11:39 AM] Douglas R. Miles: (oh yes i forgot to say that Annie had a fair recap)
[9:17:32 AM] Anne Ogborn: let me suggest that (1) should always be 'reactive', in the sense that the bot should never depend on the world state being a certain thing, but rather perceive the state of the world.
[9:30:28 AM] Anne Ogborn: I'd expect to support a condensed syntax for describing state transformations
[9:31:56 AM] Anne Ogborn: My rational for this is that it makes the system far less brittle. Experience with game AI and Rodney Brooks' work both show that this is the only way to deal with a chaotic environment
[9:32:12 AM] Anne Ogborn: the other day we came out of a restaurant, three of us together.
[9:32:32 AM] Anne Ogborn: there were 4  one dollar bills laying on the sidewalk
[9:32:48 AM] Anne Ogborn: the other people stared at them, I picked them up
[9:33:04 AM] Anne Ogborn: I'm $4 richer fro being more reactive
[9:40:27 AM] Anne Ogborn: as for making Anglobot 'run the world', I definitely think it shouldn't.
[9:42:01 AM] Anne Ogborn: That is the responsibility of other systems. Now, given the nature of SL, we may need some collusion with low level actions - eg to put the fish in the pan in SL you might detach the fish and the empty pan and attach pan_with_fish.
[9:43:08 AM] Anne Ogborn: But, a 'purer' way to do it is for the fish to present a dialog when touched. If you select 'put in pan', it sends a message to the pan to make a fish already in the pan visible, and then detaches itself.
[9:46:21 AM] Anne Ogborn: I can indeed imagine there being a construct in the language like
[9:49:18 AM] Anne Ogborn: Sitting on the fish1 poseball adds 1 raw_fish to fishing_basket average 1 hour.
[9:51:42 AM] Anne Ogborn: (should explain, these people fish by 'noodling' - holding their hands underwater, grabbing a fish and tossing it into a semi-submerged 'fishing basket' .  The fishing basket is fixed in place. They carry the fish by moving them to a 'basket'.)
[9:52:32 AM] Anne Ogborn: fishing_basket is a container.
[9:53:25 AM] Anne Ogborn: Touching fishing_basket moves all contents to basket 1 dist < 5 meters.
[9:54:24 AM] Anne Ogborn: basket is a carryable container

to me, the DSL  shouldn't describe world state at all , if by world state you mean 'the hoe is in the hut'
[7/9/2012 11:59:05 PM] Douglas R. Miles: well that "hut1" - "hut5" are type  "hut" and type "dwelling"

Yes - this I agree we should do.
In Hindi there's a 'habitual' tense for things that are always true -
kursi kamre mein hai  - the chair is in the room
kursi saman hote hain - chairs are possessions

I see us representing only habitual facts
hut1 is a hut
hut1 is a dwelling

during rain it is good to be in a hut.

to change a raw_fish into a cooked_fish
    be near fire
    have a raw_fish
    have a stick
    Touch stick
    select "Cook Fish" from dialog
    // presumably the stick plays animation of spitting the fish and cooking it
    raw_fish will remove
    cooked_fish will be in stick
    
Why only 'habitual' actions?  Because we want to be reactive. Vast experience in game AI and robotics
shows that the darnedest things will happen. So we don't want to assert fluents.

admittedly, I'm talking thru my hat - the hut might burn down. BUT, we're in a VW, not in RL. We know darn well
that the hut can't burn down unless Annie makes a burn down animation. So we have a closed universe of possible actions.

Still, we're representing 'what hillpeople know', in the sense of representing their world model.

That is, suppose the hill people believe they can bring rain by doing the rain dance. If we encode that 'knowledge', they'll
dance when they want rain. Is that 'accurate knowledge'? Depends on your world view.

Is this 'intelligent'? no. But it's a way to represent and use knowledge. Unsolved is how you obtain knowledge.
But getting this far seems to be consistent with our overall path.

Certainly the next stage beyond this is removing the hand generation of knowledge. But I'm OK with putting that off until we have
a happy representation.

I'm continuing to be puzzled by your (Douglas') clinging to the term 'world rez'.  I can't imagine the utility of a tool to generate a world. 
by a 'world rez' language I would mean editing in viewer, an OAR file, and LSL scripts.
And I really, really know that asserting 'the hoe is in the hut' is really fragile (seen this way too many times in game AI contexts).

}}}

= Design Process =

On Friday, 7/13/12, Douglas and Annie started doing a formal design process for Anglobot. I (Annie) have added this section to this page as a form to fill in for anglobot.

Design process comes from industrial/visual design. It's a formal set of steps that, while a bit corny or corporate feeling, can help make sure that what we build is what we wanted to build.

I'd note that, because I initiated this, it's got the stamp of 'my' concerns on it. We need to fix that. Before we work more on the acutal process, we should spend a little while on meta-process and figure out what I've left out by being blind to some of the AI-ish issues.

== Definition of problem ==

=== Purpose of Building Anglobot ===

1) To implement a productive development environment for plan definitions for virtual world bot plans for less technical Subject MAtter Experts.
Attracting a community of users will prevent the 'toy problem' problem in our AI research. With real users using the system to create bots in the virtual world. Promote the sharing of user generated content.

2) Implement a BDI planner that is capable of processing the content produced by the comunity. #1 challenges the competency of #2 and allows us to learn the the nuances of the optimization problem around compiling that info. How to do that is an open question in AI.

3) To make the system practicable for real users it needs a rudimentary controlled dialog system. *Additionally, our longer term goal, outside the scope of this project, is to use the BDI planner to create more robust dialog*

4) To make the system practicable for real users it needs support for common actions (eg. carryable objects, moving along paths) without forcing the user to explain the details each time.

5) 1 thru 4 allows us to test mapping the domain files to a controlled dialog system. This dialog system is the fundimental langauge of the internal dialog that a single agent thinks in expressed in PAM and SAM software from 1977(aka 'Schanks hypothesis') from the book "Script, Plans and goals"

=== Overall Objective ===

How do we know when we've succeeded?  What operationalizes success here.

=== Example Use Cases ===

==== Hillpeople ====

*Annie will continue to add complexity to the Hillpeople world in a way that stretches the capability of the system. Douglas and Andrew will expand the system to handle Annie's additions. So, for example, Annie might add a tool that's useful for many tasks (a basket) but have only one available. When the system can handle this situation, she adds a second basket.*

==== Afghan Village ====

*A notional military use case is to train users to interact with Afghan civilians in a culturally appropriate way. Such a system would place heavy demands on psychosociocultural models (the americans are resented as outside interlopers) and on dialog.*

*Can we do Afghan Village with our target design?  Should we be able to?*

==== 18th Century London ====

*A history teacher wants to recreate a portion of 18th century London, including bots who can interact with visitors and explain their actions.*

=== Constraints ===

What constraints and conditions are there on the solution?

== Analysis ==

=== Fun ===

What parts of the task do each of us see as fun? Boring? Difficult?

What are our secret agendas?

*Annie sez her secret agenda is to make beautiful things that are a delight to use, to get street cred in the VW community, and to learn a s`**`tload about software from Douglas and Andrew. She told a friend this was her year to learn to program*

=== Research ===

What research tasks should be performed before proceeding with the design?

=== User Interviews ===

Can we interview potential users?

=== Feasibility ===

Can we do this?

=== Planners ===

We're operating at the edge of known algorithm space. What constraints
does that impose?

Perhaps this phase involves some prototype coding.

=== Similar Projects ===

Identify software (and non software?) we can take ideas from.

Identify software we can take code from.

=== Needed design features  ===

 * Encourage sharing of content
 * No restart of bots

*who controls the bots?*

=== Tradeoffs ===

What are the important tradeoffs in the design?

=== Method ===

How will we build it?

How will we test it?

How will we package and deliver it?

What OSes and modes (headless, interactive) and such are needed?

How will users install it?

How will users learn to use it?

=== Support Services ===

What support services are needed?

== Ideation ==

Whoot - finally we get to spew out ideas.

Should we separate this into two pieces, one for the user facing design, and one for the underlying algorithms?

Our objective is to generate MANY possible designs.

=== Brainstorming ===

A time limited period where we avoid owning ideas and avoid criticizing ideas. Brainstorming should work on single questions.


    Focus on quantity: This rule is a means of enhancing divergent production, aiming to facilitate problem solving through the maxim quantity breeds quality. The assumption is that the greater the number of ideas generated, the greater the chance of producing a radical and effective solution.
    Withhold criticism: In brainstorming, criticism of ideas generated should be put 'on hold'. Instead, participants should focus on extending or adding to ideas, reserving criticism for a later 'critical stage' of the process. By suspending judgment, participants will feel free to generate unusual ideas.
    Welcome unusual ideas: To get a good and long list of ideas, unusual ideas are welcomed. They can be generated by looking from new perspectives and suspending assumptions. These new ways of thinking may provide better solutions.
    Combine and improve ideas: Good ideas may be combined to form a single better good idea, as suggested by the slogan "1+1=3". It is believed to stimulate the building of ideas by a process of association.[1]


=== Exhaustion ===

== Solution Selection ==

Select a solution. If we're lucky we've arrived at this point without having strongly 'owned' solutions (tell the Ali Baba Slots story here).

== Implement ==

=== Engineering Requirements Document ===

This doesn't mean final code. It means draw up a detailed (enough) design document gthat we're clear what our solution is.

=== Prototypes of Major Algorithms ===

Some toy code to demo specific algorithms.

== Critique ==

Examine our solution critically. Did something get left out? Will it work?

=== User Review ===

Show our design to potential users. Will it fullfill their needs?

=== Peer Review ===

Show our design to peers in the AI community. Defend our design.

=== Compile Design Casualties ===

By this point we should have some pretty clear ideas how our design has areas wanting improvement. 

We have probably identified new design requirements.

We feed these new requirements into the top and loop again (usually the range of designs is much narrower on subsequent passes, and the whole process much faster).

== Acceptance ==

We're all happy with the design. We build it. The world applauds, and/or the project dissolves in blame and recriminations.








