#Bot Command

=Alphabetical list=
*bold*!crouch: Starts or stops crouching.
*bold*!fly: Starts or stops flying.
*bold*!help: Print this help message.
*bold*!jump: Jumps or flies up
*bold*!pay: Pays a prim.
*bold*!say: Say something.
*bold*!sit: Attempt to sit on the closest prim
*bold*!stand: Stand
*bold*!wear: Wear an outfit folder from inventory.
*bold*!whisper: Whisper something.
*bold*@: Restrict the following commands to one or all avatars.
*bold*activategroup: Set a group as active.
*bold*addfriend: Add avatar friend.
*bold*agentlocations: Downloads all of the agent locations in a specified region.
*bold*anim: Do a animation or gesture.
*bold*animinfo: Show debug info about anims.
*bold*appearance: Set your current appearance to your last saved appearance
*bold*astargoto:   Usage: Use A* Pathfinding to get to object
*bold*astarpath:   Usage: Use A* Pathfinding to get to object
*bold*attach: attach a prim to specified (or default) attachment point from the world
*bold*attachments: Prints a list of the currently known agent attachments.
*bold*autopilot: Moves the avatar to the specified global position using simulator autopilot.
*bold*avatarinfo: Print out information on a nearby avatar.
*bold*back: Sends the move back command to the server for a single packet or a given number of seconds.
*bold*backuptext: Backup inventory to a folder on your hard drive.
*bold*balance: Shows the amount of L$.
*bold*blockpath: Puts one minute temp blocks toward objects
*bold*botact: Invoke a command a bot interuptable action (interupts previous foreground action).
*bold*botperms: Sets the bot
*bold*botvar: Maniputlates bot vars.
*bold*buy: Buys from a prim.
*bold*cd: Changes the current working inventory folder.
*bold*changeperms: Recursively changes all of the permissions for child and task inventory objects.
*bold*clone: Clone the appearance of a nearby avatar.
*bold*connectionscommand: shows simulator connections
*bold*copy: Copys from a prim.
*bold*createnotecard: Creates a notecard from a local text file and optionally embed an inventory item.
*bold*createscript: Creates a script in your inventory from a local .lsl file.
*bold*crouch: crouch [on|off] 'no argumennt=for 500ms'
*bold*debug: Turn debug messages on or off.
*bold*deed: Recursively changes all of the permissions for child and task inventory objects.
*bold*deletefolder: Moves a folder to the Trash Folder
*bold*derez: De-Rezes a specified prim.
*bold*describe:   Usage: "describe": describes everything around you 
 you can also type "describe location", "describe people", "describe objects", or "describe buildings" to describe them respectively.
*bold*dilation: Shows time dilation for current sim.
*bold*do: Tell a bot to do an action on an object
*bold*download: Downloads the specified asset.
*bold*downloadscript: Downloads the specified stript.
*bold*downloadterrain: Download the RAW terrain file for this estate.
*bold*downloadtexture: Downloads the specified texture.
*bold*drop: drops a specified attachment into the world
*bold*dumpoutfit: Dumps all of the textures from an avatars outfit to the hard drive.
*bold*echomaster: Repeat everything that master says.
*bold*emptylostandfound: Empty inventory Lost And Found folder
*bold*emptytrash: Empty inventory Trash folder
*bold*eval: Enqueue a lisp task on a bot.
*bold*evalsys: Enqueue a lisp task.
*bold*evalwith: Evals a command with a scripting interpretor.
*bold*evinfo: Shows the events that have been associated with an object.
*bold*exportparticles: Reverse engineers a prim with a particle system to an LSL script.
*bold*findobjects: Finds all objects, which name contains search-string.
*bold*findsim: Searches for a simulator and returns information about it.
*bold*findtexture: Checks if a specified texture is currently visible on a specified face.
*bold*fly: To start flying type: "fly"
*bold*flyto: Fly the avatar toward the specified position for a maximum of seconds.
*bold*follow: Start or stop following a
*bold*follow*: Start or stop following a
*bold*forward: Sends the move forward command to the server for a single packet or a given number of seconds.
*bold*friendslist: List avatar friends.
*bold*gesture: Do a gesture.
*bold*give: Gives items from the current working directory to an avatar.
*bold*giveallmoney: Gives you all it's money.
*bold*gohome: Teleports home
*bold*goto: Teleport to a location (e.g. "goto Hooper/100/100/30")
*bold*goto_landmark: Teleports to a Landmark.
*bold*gridhealth: Runs a TP check to make sure ALL sims are
*bold*gridlayer: Downloads all of the layer chunks for the grid object map
*bold*gridmap: Downloads all visible information about the grid map
*bold*groupinfo: Shows the group UI.
*bold*groupmembers: Dump group members to console.
*bold*grouproles: Dump group roles to console.
*bold*groups: List avatar groups.
*bold*help: Print this help message.
*bold*httpget: Do an http get.
*bold*httppost: Do an http post.
*bold*i: Prints out inventory.
*bold*ilint: Prints out inventory.
*bold*im: Instant message someone.
*bold*imgroup: Send an instant message to a group.
*bold*invitegroup: invite an avatar into a group.
*bold*irc: connects to IRC.
*bold*jarexec: Do an java exec.
*bold*joingroup: join a group.
*bold*jump: Jump for 500ms.
*bold*leavegroup: Leave a group.
*bold*left: Sends the move left command to the server for a single packet or a given number of seconds.
*bold*lindenfollow: Follow another avatar.
*bold*linkset: Takes from a prim.
*bold*load: Loads commands from a dll. (
*bold*locate: Finds out in which direction yourself, an object or a building or a person is.
*bold*location: Finds out in which direction yourself, an object or a building or a person is.
*bold*log: Filters out console messages
*bold*login: Login to World Server
*bold*logout: Logout from Secondlife
*bold*look:   Usage: "describe": describes everything around you 
 you can also type "describe location", "describe people", "describe objects", or "describe buildings" to describe them respectively.
*bold*lowersim: Lowers all parent prims on a simulator.
*bold*ls: Lists the contents of the current working inventory folder.
*bold*lure: Send a lure to a
*bold*mapfriend: Show a friends location.
*bold*mapimagepaths: Reads the sim map for improving routes
*bold*md5: Creates an MD5 hash from a given password.
*bold*me: Emote something.  (
*bold*meshinfo: Shows meshinfo
*bold*move: Move to a person or object, or in a direction: west, east, north or south.
*bold*moveprim: move prim to the relative specified position.
*bold*moveto: Moves the avatar to the specified global position using robot turnto and walk.
*bold*mute: Maniputate hte MuteList on the server
*bold*n/s/e/w: Move to a person or object, or in a direction: west, east, north or south.
*bold*objectinventory: Retrieves a listing of items inside an object (task inventory).
*bold*orphans: Finds objects without locations [prim]
*bold*packetlog: Logs a given number of packets to an xml file.
*bold*paramhelp: Scans the documentation for cogbot commands using the 'Parameters' field.
*bold*parceldetails: Displays parcel details from the ParcelTracker dictionary.
*bold*parcelinfo: Prints out info about all the parcels in this simulator
*bold*parrot: Make a bot parrot all actions by another avatar.
*bold*pay: Pays a prim.
*bold*pfdebug: Starts the pathfinder debuger
*bold*pointat: PointAts from a prim.
*bold*primcount: Shows the number of objects currently being tracked.
*bold*priminfo: Dumps information about a specified prim.
*bold*primowners: Displays a list of prim owners and prim counts on a parcel.
*bold*primregex: Find prim by text predicat.
*bold*primworkshop: Runs PrimWorkshop on a prim.
*bold*profile: Shows the Avatars profile in a UI component.
*bold*profileclone: Clones another avatars profile as closely as possible. WARNING: This command will destroy your existing profile!
*bold*quietly: Invoke a console command with no return results.
*bold*quit: Log all avatars out and shut down
*bold*regioninfo: Prints out info about all the current region
*bold*remeshprim: Reads the sim prims for improving routes then bakes the region (was called srprim).
*bold*removefriend: Remove avatar friend.
*bold*repeat: Repeats a command in its own thread.
*bold*returnobjectsowned: Returns all prims with a specific owner.
*bold*rezitem: Rezs items from the current working directory to an avatar.
*bold*right: Sends the move right command to the server for a single packet or a given number of seconds.
*bold*rotate: The rotate command changes the BodyRotation on the server with a single packet.
*bold*rotateprim: Rotate prim to the relative specified position.
*bold*saleinfo: sets or prints SaleInfo on a prim.
*bold*saveuuids: Saves resolution of UUID types.
*bold*say: Say a message for everyone to hear.
*bold*script: Reads BotClient commands from a file. One command per line, arguments separated by spaces.
*bold*searchclassifieds: Searches Classified Ads.
*bold*searchevents: Searches Events list.
*bold*searchgroups: Searches groups.
*bold*searchland: Searches for land for sale. for
*bold*searchpeople: Searches for other avatars.
*bold*searchplaces: Searches Places.
*bold*select: selects one or more object in world.
*bold*selectobject: Re selectobject [re|de] [prim]
*bold*selectobjects: Displays a list of prim localIDs on a given parcel with a specific owner.
*bold*setbot: Sets one current bot for subsequent textform commands
*bold*sethome: Sets home to the current location.
*bold*setmaster: Sets the
*bold*setmasterkey: Sets the key of the master
*bold*setperm: Recursively changes all of the permissions for child and task inventory objects.
*bold*settexture: Set appearance texture of avatar.
*bold*shellexec: Do an shell exec.
*bold*shout: Shout something.
*bold*showeffects: Prints out information for every viewer effect that is received.
*bold*showevent: Shows an Events details.
*bold*showgui: Shows the Radegast UI
*bold*showimage: Shows the specified image.
*bold*simbot: Start theOpenSims type AI.
*bold*simcatchup: Catches up the pathfinder
*bold*simexport: Exports an object to an xml file.
*bold*simhinfo: Calculates the Height (Z) level of walking at point.
*bold*simimport: Import prims from an exported xml file.
*bold*simtype: Manipulates the SimType typesystem
*bold*simzinfo: Calculates the Z level of walking at point.
*bold*sit: Sit on the ground or on an object.
*bold*siton: Attempt to sit on a particular prim, with specified UUID
*bold*sleep:   Usage: sleep [seconds]
*bold*srdebug: Starts the waypoint debuger
*bold*stand: Stand up.
*bold*stats: Provide connection figures and statistics
*bold*stop: Cancels a particular action
*bold*stop following: Start or stop following a
*bold*stopflying: You stop flying.
*bold*stop-flying: You stop flying.
*bold*stop-following: Start or stop following a
*bold*stopmoving: stops all movement threads
*bold*sysvar: Manipulates system vars.
*bold*take: Takes from a prim.
*bold*taskrunning: Retrieves or set IsRunning flag on items inside an object (task inventory).
*bold*tasks: Shows the list of task queue stat
*bold*tcpserver:   Usage:
*bold*teleport: Teleport to a location.
*bold*textures: Turns automatic texture downloading on or off.
*bold*thread: executes a command in its own thread.
*bold*tobot: Send a command only to one bot.
*bold*touch: Attempt to touch a prim with specified UUID
*bold*tree: Rez a tree 3 meters overhead.
*bold*turnto: turn the avatar toward the specified position for a maximum of seconds. turnto [prim | [x y [z]]
*bold*unmeshprim: Unmeshes all prims and removes collision planes.
*bold*unmute: Maniputate hte MuteList on the server
*bold*uploadimage: Upload an image to your inventory.
*bold*uploadscript: Upload a local .lsl file file into your inventory.
*bold*uploadterrain: Upload a raw terrain file to a simulator.
*bold*uptime: Shows the login name, login time and length of time logged on.
*bold*use:   Usage: Use an item from inventory or world.
*bold*uuidtype: Resolve the type of Object the UUID represents.
*bold*viewnote: Downloads and displays a notecard asset
*bold*voiceaccount: obtain voice account info.
*bold*voiceparcel: obtain parcel voice info.
*bold*voicetest: VoiceTest [firstname] [lastname] [password] [loginuri]
*bold*waitevent: wait until a certain event takes place.
*bold*waitforlogin: Waits until all bots that are currently attempting to login have succeeded or failed
*bold*waitpos: Block until the robot gets to a certain position for a certain maxwait
*bold*walkto: Go to the avatar toward the specified position for a maximum of seconds.
*bold*wear:   Usage: wear [outfit name]
 you can type  'wear [bake] /My Outfit/Dance Party
*bold*wearprim: Takes (derez to inventory) and wears a prim.
*bold*where: Finds out in which direction yourself, an object or a building or a person is.
*bold*whisper: Whisper a message to a
*bold*who: Lists seen avatars.
*bold*wind: Displays current wind data
*bold*xfer: Downloads the specified asset using the Xfer system.
*bold*Help complete
*bold*Success help