#Description how to do various things

= Introduction =

  This page is arranged by thing a programmer might want to do in Cogbot

= Overall =

== Start one or more bots ==

== switch commands to a bot ==

== attach/detach radegast ==

== log bots out ==

== shut down and exit cleanly ==

= Work with assets =

How do I set permissions when uploading?
How do I set name and description?

How do I save assets?

== Images ==

=== Upload ===

=== Get Image from UUID ===

get as what?

Can I manipulate the image data?

== Sound ==

=== Upload ===

=== Determine Length ===

== Animation ==

=== Upload ===

Loop?  In/out %?
Ease?
Hand pose/expression
priority

=== Characteristics ===

What info can I get?

= snapshots =

== Taking a snapshot ==

=== To disk ===

=== To Inventory ===

= attachments =

== attaching inventory ==

How to set attachment point

== detaching inventory ==

== Touching an attachment ==

=== on self ===

=== on other ===

= rezzed objects =

== rez standard objects ==

=== rez plants ===

== rez from inventory ==

== save to inventory ==

== change rezzed object ==

=== move, scale, rotate, change cut and so on ===

=== link ===

=== change texture ID and UV mapping ===

alpha? colors? glow? fullbright? bumpmap?

=== change contents ====

=== change permissions ===

=== set for sale ===

=== share wtih group ===

deed, etc. on front tab of edit panel

=== Set locked, physical, phantom, temp ===

=== Flexi and light ===

= inventory =

=== move items ===

=== delete items ===

=== modify permissions ===

=== wear from inventory ===

= clothing =

== wear ==

== remove ==

== modify (appearance mode) ==

== bake appearance ==

= land =

== modify terrain ==

== parcel controls ==

== reading parcel info ==

=== banning/ ejecting ===

== region/estate controls ==

==reading region/estate info ==

= gestures =

== create gesture ==

== activate gesture ==

== play gesture ==

= animations =

== play animation ==

== get list of animations playing ==

== stop animation ==

= profile =

== get picks iterator ==

== get rez date ==

= preferences =

== network settings ==

= friends =

???

= groups =

== Activate a group ==

set role?

= getting information from the environment =

== objects rezzed in world ==

=== prim params ===

=== face params ===

texture animation?

=== media params ===

== attachments and clothing on other av's ==

== attachments and clothing on self ==

== listening to chat ==

== sun, wind, clouds ==

== payment event ==

== determining ground height ==

== collisions ==

== detecting newly rezzed/deleted objects ==

== detect sound play ==

= money =

== pay lindens ==

= camera -do we even have one? =

= using assets =

== play sound ==

== notecard ==

=== read contents ===

=== create ===

== script ==

=== create ===

=== start/stop ===

=== add/remove from object inventory ===

=== save to/ load from my inventory ===

= voice =

= sit =

== determine what I'm sitting on ==

== sit on something ==

== unsit ==

= point, look, touch =

== set point at/ look at ==

== select an object(s) ==

== touch an object ==

== grab a physical object ==

== detect what another av is selecting ==

= movement =

== walk ==

== run ==

== fly ==

== stop flying / fall ==

== jump ==

= media/ browser interaction =

= mute =

== mute/unmute an av ==

== mute/ unmute an object ==

= get help =

{{{
botClientCmd(help).
... much help text ...

6 ?- botClientCmd('debug Debug').
@'C#505362840':"Logging is set to Debug"
"Success debug"
true.

Usage: //debug [level] where level is one of None, Debug, Error, Info, Warn
}}}


