= Machine Vision =

Cogbot would benefit from being able to characterize surfaces.

= Features =

  * ratio of edges between transparent and nontransparent areas - eg. plants wil have high values for this. 
  * Topology of transparent areas - Solid on the edges withmany holes in the center is probably a window with mullions
  * Hough transform - this finds lines
  * FFT - this can probably be used to sort out 'textures' from 'images'



= Packages =

This is notes about available machine vision/image processing packages that might be suitable for doing texture analysis



  * AForge - a nice, easy to use package in C#  The Hough transform is slow, we need to run some performance tests

  * cIMg  - C++ library with nice support.
            Name is really "CoolImage", but many places refer to it as cImg (even on the project website).
            It appears to be quite simple to use, and the demo program seems more performant.  
     5/5/2012 - AO - I've written hough/inverse hough and it runs at video rates.

  * eyepatch - this is what Kino originally was going to use. It seems more an application than a library, and seems really oriented towards camera analysis.

  * ImageJ - seems quite slow, and more of a toy app than a library

  * Neatvision - I've used this for a project. Sadly, it's dead, because it was exactly what we needed. It had a GUI dataflow / visual programming pipeline builder, and a very wide variety of transforms. Unofrtunately it's closed source, dead, and depends on Java 1.4.  The offered replacement depends on matlab

  * OpenCV - this seems to be the closest there is to a standard machine vision package. However, it is complex, extremely poorly documented, and seems to be in disarray - I couldn't even find coherent build instructions or get it to build.