# List of plugins we'd like to see in some ideal world.

= Introduction =

This is a list of plugins we'd love to see some day, just to help establish direction. It's not a roadmap we're working on.


= List =
   
  * texture analysis - offline process that ontologizes texture uuid-such-and-such as 'grass'.
  * Learn by example plugin - like the OpenCog dog demo, act out what you want the bot to do.
  * Hot pluggable proxy - connect and disconnect a normal viewer from a localhost port to control the bot without it logging in/out
  * Macro recorder - atop the proxy, build up actions by acting them out with the normal client.
  * AtomSpace plugin
  * DBPedia and other ontologies, ideally transparently swappable for OpenCyc
  * Social position plugin - plugin that uses cues like name of the skull attachment, number of attachments, amount of exposed 'real' av, to socially classify an AV - gender, furry, tiny, how provocative their attire is, and similar information we humans get mostly by looking at the AV.
  * Model of human psychology  - So, for example, aiml topics could only match when the bot is tired, or the bot could be ennervated after being in a frightening environment for a long time.
  * microtheeory of SL culture.
  * Pragmatics module that plans speech and nonverbal acts to maximize utility - e.g. that assertively orders griefers off land, or greets the bot's owner's friend.
  * Text to speech/ speech to text/ speech recognition integration
  * Teacher bot personality and moodle integration plugin
  * plugin that identifies structures and parts of buildings
  * plugin that tries to determine the 'style' of content - e.g. 'this is vampire stuff'
  * plugin that broadly attempts to determine avatar behavior 'this avatar is afk, that one is chatting in a group, that one is building'
  * more AIML personalities



  